So now we could say something along
the lines of, we'll change this
to use thunk reducer and we'll say
use effect, just like before, and
there's nothing stopping you from
combining these approaches as well.
Will say go ahead and fetch.
Remember, before we had a whole bunch
of that extra like loading state and
stuff along those lines, we can say.
Hold on one second.
We'll use effect and
we'll dispatch a function.
Might actually even pull
this out a little bit.
We could actually give ourselves
like a fetch character,
so let's actually pull that out.
We'll say const, fetch characters,
just cuz it's gonna get a little
confusing in that use effect.
Again, this is simply
a JavaScript function,
it will use fetch it will
have a side effect, right?
Which makes it a little trickier task but
we say fetch, and we'll say end point.
Was characters, this we've seen this
before right then response,
response to Jason.
Then we'll take that response and
we'll dispatch.
Type.
Why are we doing this, right?
We're writing this file, but now,
we're taking the idea of sending an AJAX
request and dispatching stuff, and
we're removing it completely from
our React application, right?
It's simply announcing that stuff
happened as it goes through.
It can be in another file,
it can be literally anywhere,
we can reuse this all over
our code bases is simply
an action creator like that ad garage and
toggle forgiveness that we saw earlier.
It is separate from any other concept.
It will get a thing called dispatch which
should be a function, it will call it.
Right, but
that's all it really needs to know about
anything else will give the payload.
And this case is gonna do
because this is built for
the characters one because it's why it's
called fetch characters,
we'll say the payload is,
so you say characters
is response.characters
So it's got a type, it's got a payload,
if things go poorly,
we got the error, Nope.
The error.
This could be anywhere in my code base.
The idea is it is totally separate,
it's simply a JavaScript function.
It's going to take this dispatch thing.
It's gonna call the same dispatches,
and do all of the right things.
And then hopefully whatever wants to
manage it, whether it's show a load or
showed an error, like whatever,
we're separating that like what
the component does from the actual
separating of the state,
the more you don't have things combined,
the easier it is to change your mind.
Right?
You can reconfigure all the pieces,
when everything's tied
together is problematic.
So now, in here when they click
that button, we're just gonna say,
dispatch, fetchCharacters.
So this is the dispatch here that
comes from our useThunkReducer, right?
It will go ahead and
dispatch this function,
which will get a copy of dispatch,
which will then handle everything else.
So we've separated what
the component knows about.
It's like, hey,
I'm gonna dispatch this function.
It knows about how to go get characters,
and
it's completely separate from our UI,
right?
And then it will tell
the Reducer that does no stuff
all the things that happened.
So we're beginning to separate out,
we've separated state management for
the component.
We've brought in the ability
to pass any function we want,
to kind of customize this.
We want the body to do something else,
we just dispatch another thunk, right?
So we're going to get the same
effect that we had previously but
we can pull more stuff out.
Now, let's say you don't
want to have thunks, but
you wanted to have logging, right?
Whatever you want to do, you can create
like these kind of customized versions of
dispatch, in order to do that for you.
Let's verify that it works.
We'll see if I got any fun new errors,
useEffect is not defined,
that's a great one.
So fetch and you see that
the load based on that button, so
before we were doing it when it mounted,
here we now have it as a function that
will go ahead and trigger it on an event.
Right?
Instead of loading with announcement,
you just a regular useEffect,
we're saying hey they've dispatched this
fetchCharacters I have those separate,
you know how to do that?
When they hit the button will dispatch go
fetch the characters which can then go
ahead it will dispatch a loading.
It will go dispatch a response completed.
It will go dispatch an error.
Right, we kinda separate out
all of these pieces, and
that's basically a way to add extra
functionality to the dispatch
if the very simple use reducer that React
gives you doesn't give you what you want.
Should you find yourself adding lots and
lots of different types of middle ware.
Could you add them more and more?
You could.
It's probably a sign that Redux
might be a choice for you.
You know, ask your team about Redux and
decide if that's what
you want going forward.
Like there was a lot of things when
we lost some of that performance
stuff with the context API.
React Redux, which we'll see later, which
we'll talk about a little bit more later,
does a lot more of those performance
optimizations for you, right?
And could you implement them yourself?
You totally could.
Should you?
Probably not.
>> I keep seeing that you're missing,
well, not you, we would be, too,
missing a dependency.
>> Yep.
>> That doesn't seem to
be affecting anything.
>> This one, it's not, but
we should put it right.
Where's that use effect?
It's not affecting anything cuz this
component doesn't reload, right?
We have that empty array in here, so
it's not like, slamming on the API.
But that so
this whole load when it first mounts, but
this will say if dispatch changes which
it really won't with the use reducer.
Actually we might have to wrap
this in a use call back, right?
But [SOUND] yeah, let's actually fix it.
I'm pretty sure that when
I put this dispatch in
here things are gonna go poorly.
Right?
It works right now,
because it does it only on Mount.
If I put dispatch in here, JavaScript is
gonna make my life a real hard, right?
Cuz what happens here is we're returning
a new enhanced dispatch every time, right?
Which is going to come out
of this function every time,
which is going to trigger,
you know, bad stuff every time.
So what we'll probably do here is we'll
say React.useCallback is a great noticing.
React.useCallback and as long as
the dispatch from useReducer is the same,
we can assume that this shouldn't change
either, and we know because I told you and
you believed me that we saw it with
our performance optimization before,
that the dispatch every time
will be the same referentially.
So let's make sure I
didn't blow anything up.
Cool, yeah, so we're just saying,
hey, if dispatch hasn't changed,
don't give me a new enhanced dispatch
every time render is called,
just give me back the same one cuz it's
just calling the same dispatch, right?
And these are the little tricks you have
to be worried about with the useEffect
because otherwise, yeah,
I probably would've locked up the browser.
Right, just from talking and
typing at the same time.
But that's why you live-code
with 15 of your friends.
>> [LAUGH]
>> What we're gonna talk about a little
bit next is thinking about some routing,
in this case.